spec source for provisional extensions (#695)
KhronosGroup/OpenCL-Docs: ext/cl_khr_semaphore.asciidoc

[source]
----
CL_SEMAPHORE_CONTEXT_KHR                                    0x2039
CL_SEMAPHORE_REFERENCE_COUNT_KHR                            0x203A
CL_SEMAPHORE_PROPERTIES_KHR                                 0x203B
CL_SEMAPHORE_PAYLOAD_KHR                                    0x203C
----

// TODO: We don't need an enum assigned for CL_DEVICE_HANDLE_LIST_END_KHR and should just use 0.
// TODO: Do we need to define CL_DEVICE_HANDLE_LIST here or should it be in the external semaphore spec instead?

New attributes that can be passed as part of {cl_semaphore_info_khr_TYPE} or {cl_semaphore_properties_khr_TYPE}:

[source]
----
CL_SEMAPHORE_TYPE_KHR                                       0x203D
CL_DEVICE_HANDLE_LIST_KHR                                   0x2051
CL_DEVICE_HANDLE_LIST_END_KHR                               0
----

New return values from {clGetEventInfo} when _param_name_ is {CL_EVENT_COMMAND_TYPE}:

[source]
----
CL_COMMAND_SEMAPHORE_WAIT_KHR                               0x2042
CL_COMMAND_SEMAPHORE_SIGNAL_KHR                             0x2043
----

// TODO: This error code is already allocated.  Use -1141 instead?

> Following error codes can be returned by APIs introduced as part of this spec or the specs may depend on this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following error codes can be returned by APIs introduced as part of this specification or the specifications that depend on this:
```

|====

{clGetDeviceInfo} when called with param_name {CL_DEVICE_SEMAPHORE_TYPES_KHR} must return a non-empty list of semaphore types for at least one of the devices in the platform.
The results of this query should meet minimum requirements for {cl_semaphore_type_khr_TYPE} as described by <<Description of new types added by this spec>>.

=== Description of new types added by this spec

Following new types are added:

* {cl_semaphore_type_khr_TYPE} to represent the different types of semaphores.
    ** It is mandatory to support {CL_SEMAPHORE_TYPE_BINARY_KHR}.

* {cl_semaphore_properties_khr_TYPE} to represent properties associated with semaphores.
    ** {CL_SEMAPHORE_TYPE_KHR} must be supported.

* {cl_semaphore_info_khr_TYPE} to represent queries to get additional information about semaphores.
    ** All enums described in New API Enums for {cl_semaphore_info_khr_TYPE} must be supported.

* {cl_semaphore_payload_khr_TYPE} to represent payload values of semaphores.

* {cl_semaphore_khr_TYPE} to represent semaphore objects.

Note that above types can be extended in future based on the need for additional types of semaphore and properties required by them.

> The specifics of the same can be added as a newer version of this spec or by a separate spec that depends on this for basic semaphore support.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The specifics of the same can be added as a newer version of this specification or by a separate specification that depends on this for basic semaphore support.
```

* {CL_INVALID_CONTEXT} if _context_ is not a valid context.
* {CL_INVALID_PROPERTY} if a property name in _sema_props_ is not a supported property name, if the value specified for a supported property name is not valid, or if the same property name is specified more than once.
* {CL_INVALID_DEVICE} if {CL_DEVICE_HANDLE_LIST_KHR} is specified as part of _sema_props_, but it does not identify a valid device or if a device identified by {CL_DEVICE_HANDLE_LIST_KHR} is not one of the devices within _context_.
* {CL_INVALID_VALUE}
** if _sema_props_ is `NULL`, or
** if _sema_props_ do not specify <property, value> pairs for minimum set of properties (i.e. {CL_SEMAPHORE_TYPE_KHR}) required for successful creation of a {cl_semaphore_khr_TYPE}, or
** if one or more properties and/or their values specified by _sema_props_ are not valid.
* {CL_OUT_OF_RESOURCES} if there is a failure to allocate resources required by the OpenCL implementation on the device.
* {CL_OUT_OF_HOST_MEMORY} if there is a failure to allocate resources required by the OpenCL implementation on the host.

==== Waiting on and signaling semaphores

> To wait on a set of semaphores, call the function

Author: I think the first is more correct - the function waits on both the semaphore and the set of events in the event wait list, then marks the event associated with the command complete.

We should file an issue to tidy up this description.  I agree it is not very detailed right now.

This can be set to `NULL` or will be ignored when all semaphores in the list of _sema_objects_ are of type {CL_SEMAPHORE_TYPE_BINARY_KHR}.

_num_events_in_wait_list_ specifies the number of events in _event_wait_list_.

_event_wait_list_ specifies list of events that need to complete before {clEnqueueWaitSemaphoresKHR} can be executed.
If _event_wait_list_ is `NULL`, then {clEnqueueWaitSemaphoresKHR} does not wait on any event to complete.
If _event_wait_list_ is `NULL`, _num_events_in_wait_list_ must be 0.
If _event_wait_list_ is not `NULL`, the list of events pointed to by _event_wait_list_ must be valid and _num_events_in_wait_list_ must be greater than 0.
The events specified in _event_wait_list_ act as synchronization points.
The context associated with events in _event_wait_list_ and that associated with _command_queue_ must be the same.

_event_ returns an event object that identifies this particular command and can be used to query or queue a wait for this particular command to complete.
_event_ can be `NULL` in which case it will not be possible for the application to query the status of this command or queue a wait for this command to complete.

> The successful completion of the event generated by {clEnqueueWaitSemaphoresKHR} called on one or more semaphore objects of type {CL_SEMAPHORE_TYPE_BINARY_KHR} leads to un-signaling the corresponding semaphore objects and the state of these semaphore objects will be reset. Any subsequent {clEnqueueWaitSemaphoresKHR}operation on these semaphores without a pending {clEnqueueSignalSemaphoresKHR} may lead to implementation-defined behavior.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The successful completion of the event generated by {clEnqueueWaitSemaphoresKHR} called on one or more semaphore objects of type {CL_SEMAPHORE_TYPE_BINARY_KHR} leads to un-signaling the corresponding semaphore objects and the state of these semaphore objects will be reset. Any subsequent {clEnqueueWaitSemaphoresKHR} operation on these semaphores without a pending {clEnqueueSignalSemaphoresKHR} may lead to implementation-defined behavior.
```

{clEnqueueWaitSemaphoresKHR} returns {CL_SUCCESS} if the function is executed successfully.
Otherwise, it returns one of the following errors:

* {CL_INVALID_COMMAND_QUEUE}
** if _command_queue_ is not a valid command-queue, or

> ** if the device associated with _command_queue_ is not same as one of the devices specified by {CL_DEVICE_HANDLE_LIST_KHR} at the time of creating one or more of _sema_objects_ ,or

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
** if the device associated with _command_queue_ is not same as one of the devices specified by {CL_DEVICE_HANDLE_LIST_KHR} at the time of creating one or more of _sema_objects_, or
```

* {CL_INVALID_EVENT_WAIT_LIST}
     ** if _event_wait_list_ is `NULL` and _num_events_in_wait_list_ is not 0, or
     ** if _event_wait_list_ is not `NULL` and _num_events_in_wait_list_ is 0, or
     ** if event objects in _event_wait_list_ are not valid events.
* {CL_EXEC_STATUS_ERROR_FOR_EVENTS_IN_WAIT_LIST} if the execution status of any of the events in _event_wait_list_ is a negative integer value.
* {CL_OUT_OF_RESOURCES} if there is a failure to allocate resources required by the OpenCL implementation on the device.
* {CL_OUT_OF_HOST_MEMORY} if there is a failure to allocate resources required by the OpenCL implementation on the host.

To signal a set of semaphores, call the function

include::{generated}/api/protos/clEnqueueSignalSemaphoresKHR.txt[]

_command_queue_ specifies a valid command-queue.

_num_sema_objects_ specifies the number of semaphore objects to signal.

_sema_objects_ points to the list of semaphore objects to signal.
The length of the list must be at least _num_sema_objects_.

_sema_payload_list_ points to the list of values of type {cl_semaphore_payload_khr_TYPE} containing semaphore payload values to signal.

> This can be set to `NULL` or will be ignored when all semaphores in the list of _sema_objects_ are of type {CL_SEMAPHORE_TYPE_BINARY_KHR}.

Author: Tracked by https://github.com/KhronosGroup/OpenCL-Docs/issues/696.

include::{generated}/api/protos/clGetSemaphoreInfoKHR.txt[]

_sema_object_ specifies the semaphore object being queried.

_param_name_ is a constant that specifies the semaphore information to query, and must be one of the values shown in <<cl_khr_semaphore_info-table>>.

_param_value_ is a pointer to memory where the result of the query is returned as described in <<cl_khr_semaphore_info-table>>. If _param_value_ is `NULL`, it is ignored.

_param_value_size_ specifies the size in bytes of memory pointed to _param_value_. This size must be greater than or equal to the size of the return type described in table <<cl_khr_semaphore_info-table>>.

_param_value_size_ret_ returns the actual size in bytes of data
being queried by _param_value_. If _param_value_size_ret_ is `NULL`, it is ignored.

[[cl_khr_semaphore_info-table]]
.List of supported param_names by clGetSemaphoreInfoKHR
[width="100%",cols="<33%,<17%,<50%",options="header"]
|====
| Semaphore Info | Return Type | Description
| {CL_SEMAPHORE_CONTEXT_KHR}
  | {cl_context_TYPE}
      | Returns the context specified when the semaphore is created.

| {CL_SEMAPHORE_REFERENCE_COUNT_KHR}
  | {cl_uint_TYPE}

>       | Returns the semaphore reference count.

Author: Tracked by https://github.com/KhronosGroup/OpenCL-Docs/issues/696.

After the reference count becomes zero and commands queued for execution on a
command-queue(s) that use _sema_object_ have finished, the semaphore object is
deleted.
Using this function to release a reference that was not obtained by creating the
object via {clCreateSemaphoreWithPropertiesKHR} or by calling
{clRetainSemaphoreKHR} causes undefined behavior.

To retain a semaphore object, call the function

include::{generated}/api/protos/clRetainSemaphoreKHR.txt[]

_sema_object_ specifies a valid semaphore object created.

increments the reference count of _sema_object_.

{clRetainSemaphoreKHR} returns {CL_SUCCESS} if the function is executed successfully.
Otherwise, it returns one of the following errors:

* {CL_INVALID_SEMAPHORE_KHR} if sema_object is not a valid semaphore object.
* {CL_OUT_OF_RESOURCES} if there is a failure to allocate resources required by the OpenCL implementation on the device.
* {CL_OUT_OF_HOST_MEMORY} if there is a failure to allocate resources required by the OpenCL implementation on the host.

[[cl_khr_semaphore-Sample-Code]]
=== Sample Code

> . Example for semaphore creation in single device context

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Example for semaphore creation in a single device context
```

                               /*event*/                      NULL);

    // Launch kernel in OpenCL
    clEnqueueNDRangeKernel(command_queue, ...);

    // Signal the semaphore in OpenCL
    clEnqueueSignalSemaphoresKHR(/*command_queue*/              command_queue,
                                 /*num_sema_objects*/           1,
                                 /*sema_objects*/               &clSema,
                                 /*sema_payload_list*/          NULL,
                                 /*num_events_in_wait_list*/    0,
                                 /*event_wait_list*/            NULL,
                                 /*event*/                      NULL);

    // Query type of clSema
    clGetSemaphoreInfoKHR(/*sema_object*/           clSema,
                          /*param_name*/            CL_SEMAPHORE_TYPE_KHR,
                          /*param_value_size*/      sizeof(cl_semaphore_type_khr),
                          /*param_value*/           &clSemaType,
                          /*param_value_ret_size*/  &clSemaTypeSize);

    if (clSemaType == CL_SEMAPHORE_TYPE_BINARY_KHR) {
        // Do something
    }
    else {
        // Do something else
    }

>     // (not shown) Launch other work that waits on  'clSema'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    // (not shown) Launch other work that waits on 'clSema'
```
